Skip to content

2013 08_Meeting_(DebConf13)

William Desportes edited this page Apr 6, 2019 · 6 revisions

Topics to discuss on developer meeting at Debconf 2013. Attending developers are welcome to add topics.

Umbrella organization


Depending on recent evolution, we will discuss which umbrella organization we will join, details of the Fiscal Sponsorship Agreement (FSA) or sign the required documents.

--Ruleant 13:09, 03 July 2013 (CEST)

For conservancy:

  • We should decide how committee voting will be done.
  • For example quorum of 50%+ committee members.


Quorum and majority of votes are two different things. Quorum is the percentage of people voting in relation to all people who are allowed to vote, a majority is the number of votes that have to be cast on one of the options. We'll have to decide rules for both of them.

--Ruleant 15:22, 09 Augustus 2013 (CEST)


We signed the Fiscal Sponsorship Agreement (FSA) with the Software Freedom Conservancy.

For voting:

  • Quorum is 50% of the committee members
  • Winning a vote requires simple majority (50% + 1 vote)

The Conservancy asked that we send them past receipts of expenses, we decided that we would send receipts for DebConf13 expenses and that going further in the past is not necessary.

Relicense phpMyAdmin


Taking into account that a lot of ISP and other platform providers, offer phpMyAdmin as a service, the current license (GPL) does not fully protect phpMyAdmin. Affero GPLis specifically designed to protect applications that are offered as a service.

Main problem : Because service providers don't (re)distribute code, they are not shipping the source code. As a result, if they make changes to it, those changes are not being made avialable for the general public. AGPL indicates that when software is offered as a service, the source code that is running should be made publicly available, for the general public to benefit from any changes.

Should we consider to relicense phpMyAdmin under the AGPL?

--Ruleant 13:23, 03 July 2013 (CEST)

Issues with this:

  • All copyright holders of current code would have to be contacted to agree with license change.
  • We would have to provide in application link to download complete source.
  • Strictly speaking, is also code, but I don't think we would want to expose this one.

--Nijel 11:46, 8 July 2013 (CEST)


For phpMyAdmin itself, we will change our license to "GPL 2 or later". We'll seek help from the Conservancy to contact past contributors.

License for error reporting server


The new error reporting server, being developed by a GSoC 2013 student, is based on cakePHP, which is licensed under MIT 2.0. Under which license will we license the work on the error reporting server. As it will not be shipped with phpMyAdmin, we have an option of GPL or MIT (GPL is compatible MIT license)

--Ruleant 15:26, 09 Augustus 2013 (CEST)


We'll use the MIT license. We'll ask the GSoC student to add a license notice about this.

15th anniversary of phpMyAdmin


phpMyAdmin was born on 1998-09-09, so let's plan something for 2013-09-09 ...

--Lem9 07 June 2013


There will be no special meeting for the anniversary. Two suggestions:

  • On the website, some kind of announcement; Isaac proposed to write a draft.
  • We could update the Codeswarm video showing the history of the codebase ( and Marc will have a




We have the security team, the mentoring team and the admin team but I believe that we should create more teams, to increase the sense of responsibility of each developer towards the project. For example, Bugs team, New features team, Release team(?) ...

--Lem9 19:04, 4 July 2013 (CEST)


We won't form more teams than we have now, so we'll only have the current admin, security and mentoring teams.

Marc steps down from the security team but will remain on the security mailing list as it's important that the admin team be aware of security issues to coordinate releases.

Instead of having more teams, we identified areas of responsibility and confirmed or nominated the "coordinator" role for some of these areas:

  • Support: Isaac
  • Security: Dieter
  • Release: Marc
  • Infrastructure: Michal
  • QA and testing: Rouslan
  • User documentation:
  • Wiki:
  • Website:
  • Bugs: Madhura
  • Juniors coaching: Rouslan (as a backup coordinator)
  • New features: Chanaka

These coordinators will be listed on the website (team page). Of course team members are expected to help in any areas (for example anyone can work on a bug).

Also we might want to run a contest to improve the design of the website.

We decided to move the user doc away from the wiki (only leave a pointer) to avoid stale user doc on the wiki. Volunteer needed.

We need better release notes identifying, for example, changes in the configuration directives.



Several items regarding servers and hosting :

  • SSL enabled host
  • hosting and name of error-reporting server

--Ruleant 12:50, 08 July 2013 (CEST)


For the SSL issues, we decided that instead of trying to move hosting away from SourceForge (which does not permit to have a SSL certificate, we'll create which will be hosted on Michal's server. Traffic should not be too high. This will host the version checking mechanism and the error reporting server.

Browser support


  • How to deal with bug tickets about less popular browsers and browser versions?
  • Take into account the guarantees offered by the libraries we are using?

--Lem9 17:24, 30 July 2013 (CEST)


Work has to be done to identify the guarantees that the library we are using offer for browser support; then we should inform users.

Version 4


How to deal with various complaints about this version?

--Lem9 17:24, 30 July 2013 (CEST)


We confirm the direction we have taken (tree view in left panel, Ajax behavior) and won't offer alternatives.

However we'll have to fix some bugs that make the current tree view problematic for some.

GSoC co-mentoring


Was is a good experience? How was the mentoring work divided between the co-mentors?

--Lem9 16:42, 8 July 2013 (CEST)


The experience was positive and even helped in some cases where the main mentor was less available.

phpMyAdmin RoadMap / Ideas for next GSoC


With last two GSoC's being mainly focused on improving code quality and maintainability (refactoring, testing, plugins, ...), we can start thinking about new features.

--Ruleant 13:09, 03 July 2013 (CEST)


Ideas for version 4.2

  • performance (probably not a GSoC subject)
  • merge Designer and Relation view
  • other minor new features
  • have a look at the visual query builder and decide what to do

Social media / Support


Should phpMyAdmin be more present in social media (Facebook, Google+, Twitter, Stackoverflow, ...) and how will we use these media? Only information sharing (news, updates, new releases, ...) or also support?

--Ruleant 15:32, 09 Augustus 2013 (CEST)


About Facebook, Twitter, Google+: we decided to use them only for announcements and not support.

New support: we will concentrate support on one medium: Stackoverflow (with the "phpmyadmin" tag"). It offers better searching (especially via Google) and a better mechanism so that the community can help itself.

This means that we'll deprecate our IRC channel, phpmyadmin-users list and three forums. Announcements will be made on these channels that at some point (to be defined), support will switch to Stackoverflow. The mailing list and forums will be closed (archives will remain) and IRC will stay open but with a clear pointer to Stackoverflow.

Next Team meeting


Discuss ideas for location and time of a next team meeting.

--Ruleant 18:21, 25 July 2013 (CEST)


  • in person: let's try to have a yearly team meeting; the next meeting could happen at Linux Tag in June 2014
  • monthly: we decided that a monthly IRC meeting (public) would help focussing on current issues

Meetings Category:DebConf13

Clone this wiki locally